ey

Get 6 Hecke bebey Meum Trina nto

‘College of Hducation, “loany, New York, Sept. 12, 1961

Inprovemen+ ef the +caching of English will bethe
goal of the Institute in English spensere’ by the College Entrance
b:amination Beard and the New York State Univers ity College of
Eduaation, Albany, to be held a+ the college h the smmer of 1962,
Three area professors who will b the instructors in +he Institute
have returned from a three-week planning session at the “nive-sity
of Michigan, a+ 4nn Arbor.

The Gommission on English of the College Entrance Exan-
ination Besrd has chosen the College of Educati>n as one@ twenty
colleges acress +he country +e be a center for English teachers +e
B+udy and @velep new materials and methods of teachi-g. Forty-five
teachers from public, private, and parochial scheols within fifty
m‘les of Albany will be chosen +o p rticipate.

Graduate credit will be given for the Ins+itute courses
which were planned by +he instructors, Dr, Gretchen “aulus, Asseciate
Professor of English a+ the Uollese ¢ Bdweation, Dr. Carl Niemeyer,
Yrefesser ¢ English and Chairman of the ona tea Department of
Union Yollege, Schenectdady, and Mr, William C, Kraus, As istant

rrefecseref Educat’on (English) and supervisor a+ +he Milne School,

College of Education.
a

State College of Education at Albany

SS

—™
Institute, Add 1

eee

The teachers will receive a fellowship from the
Commiss‘on on “nglish and they will take courses in composition,
literature, anda language. ‘Time will also be spent i: workshops
developing materials and >recedures te be used in high-school
English classes, uring the follewing sc'o@l year +hese procedures
will be +ried and +heir effeetiveness will be s*udied.

"Although +he emphasis will be on classes for the
college-bound students, each *eacher will adap+ +he materials
Geveloped in +he Ins+i+ute for kis own vse and sme materials
migh+ be applicable +o al! English classes," 1* was stated by
+he werdinater of rndthes uve, Bavid W, Marvin, Assisran+
Professer of Educa+ion (English), 5y i-preving his ewn ability
+o write and +e study literature and language, +h teacher

Should improve his teaching of *he same subjects +e his

a

high-scheol students,
STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK
NEW YORK STATE COLLEGE FOR TEACHERS
| ALBANY
COLLEGE OF EDUCATION AT ALBANY / Immediate or after
/ 1100 P,,, Wednesday,
y 2
Renn Gy Corrine, ‘Tite 73 | Sopts 13, 1962

/
EVEHTs ALL, COLLEGE CONVOCAT;/on UNDER THE DIRECTION OF THR STUDENT DODY PRESIDENT,
DAVID BROOKER

ar

The puryose «jf thde Convocation 42 to Antsoduee the feestnon College
Adsindctm itive Staffs, ao vell as to officcrs of Stuteut Coverment.,

saiditisenngd !

Religious Groupe, wad Montes
CYRST SPEAKER De, Réuewd Sazgent, Professor of Réuention at the College
“hor? bs *% YRASURE OF SUCCESS I COLLEGE
Wotsy/ If pubddched AFTER wednesday, Sept. 13, at 1:00 P.M, the ollowing pointe of

INTER-OFFICE MEMO

PO: Frank Carrino

FROM: Donald S. allen, Chairman DATE, 9/26/61 "
Department of Chemistry

The Eastern New York Section of the American Chemical
Society will hold its November meeting at the college on the
i ; 15th in 349 Draper at 8 p.m.

— The Speaker will be Dr. Leallyn Clapp, Professor of
Chemistry, Brown University. His topic - ''New Develop-
ments in High School Chemistry." High School Chemistry
Teacher awards will be made on this occasion.

Vv

Dr. Glapp is a text book author, and a member of the
Board of Directors on the Chemical Bond Approach (one of
the two major High School chemistry programs subsidized by
the National Science Foundatio He has also served as Chair-
man of the Division of the Chemical Education of A. C. S.

#400

rank

STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK
RK STATE COLLEGE FOR TEACHERS

coLiace oF epucarion ar ABI nea
Frank G. Carrino ™) 3-1254 &x.73

OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT

September 1, Albany, N.Y. - The College of Hiueation at Albany awarded
certificates to 28 high school teachers who satisfactorily eonpleted the
August driver training-safty courses, unier the direction of Professor |
‘thomas R. Gibson, Chairman ef the Department of Safty and Health Eduostion
at the College. d

4n qvard luncheon at Forborts marked the completion of the tvo courses
which ran concurrently: a three-week basic course in the Teaching of Driver
Education, end a two-week course on the Problema in the Administration ani
Teaching of Driver ani Traffic Sefaby Education. ‘Those courses, according
te Professor Gibson, are designed “to prepare instructes to institute and
teach driver education ani teach driver education courses in their schools,
or to give inoteuetors efvanced proparation in order to improve their teaching
abilities." Many of these instructors, representing high schools through-
out Mew York, wore enabled to attend these courses through scholarship grants
nade available by the Allistate Foundation. These funds were the eighth
enmual grent by this Tountation.

fmong those present at tbe luncheon were: John &. Arens, Director of
Public Relations of the Allstate Insurance Company, White Plains, N.¥.3
Biward Way, of Marsh Hallman Chevrolet, Inc. Ernest W. Manning, President
of the Albany Auto Club, Inc., ani Drs, Edgar W. Flinton, Willaim E, Seymour,
ani Frank @, Carrino of the College administrative staff.

Professor Gibson, along with Associate Professor Harry L. Clawson of

(nore)

a a aitit

STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK

K STATE COLLEGE FOR TEACHERS
coLnEas OF EDveATION at ‘MiMAiR™

ALBANY
Prank G. Carving WD 35-1254 Ex. 73 Inmediate

OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT

the College's Education Department were the instructors for the two

courses. Special consultants for the training include: HaréJd Carlton,

Biucational Consultant of the Amoriean sutomobile Associations forbert

F. Mayne, Associate in Adult Education, State Education Department;
Kenneth Long, Assistant in Safety Edusstion, State Btusstion Dopartnent;
Janos R, Barrett, Director of Driver Safety ond Improvement, State Depart- |
mont of Notor lisles; Arnold W. Wise, Chief Counsel, State Noter Vehicle
Dopartuent, and John L. Thomas of tho Fetroloum Institute.

#¢ée

G. Carrino HO 31254 Ex 73
vd Exclusive for the
Relations Officer and CORNING LEADER

September 15, Corning, N.Y. «New York State College of Education at Albany
started classes on September 14, under the direction of Associate Dean Jack Derringer,
‘the: newly appointed Associate Dean for Academie Affairs at the College, according to
an announcement by Dr. ivan R. Collins, President of the institution, Dr. Derringer
had been Dean of the State University Corning Community College since its opening,
three years ago. ‘The Albany College has been without a Dean since mid-July, when
Dean Osear By Lanford was named president of the State University College of Rducation
at Fredonia, Dr. Derringer will carry responsibility for several functions formerly
@ischarged by the Dean of the College, especially in esademio counselling and the
encouragement of scholarship.

The former Corning Dean was on hand to welcome terminal students of the
Community College who are contiming their studies at Albany. They are: E. Keith
Coombs, Louise Kammire, Barbara MeClure, and Robert Van Wagner. Three other residents
of Corning, Samuel L. Cole, Andrea Lee Hanas, and Franklin E. Tobey, also are attending
the College of Education at Albany,as freshmen.

Hee

College of Education et Albany
Prank G. Gayrino HO 361254 Ex. 73 Innediate

Sopt,20,Albany <= Dr, Walter B, Keighton, Chaiman ef the Department of
Chenistry at Svartimore College, Svarthmore, Pennsylvania, will lecture on
"Honore Seminars in Chonierty", at the College of Education in Albany, on
Thumeday, September 21, at 4100 F.!., in room 150 Husted Hall, according to an
announcement by Dr, Donald &. Allen, Chairman of the Department of Chonistry at
the College.

Adniniotraters and faculty of the area colleges are cordially invited to
attend Dr. Keighton's séminar lecture,

Swarthmore College has been one of the nation's leading institutions in
developing “honors' programe" for gifted students,

+409

College of Education at Albany
Immediate

Frank G. Carrino HO31254 Ex. 75

TO: Greenville Local

George E. Bleezarde, Bditor,
164 Main Street
Ravena, New York.

Dr, Evan R. Collins, President of the State University College of Education,
Albany, will speak at thedinner meeting of the Albany College of Education
Library Aluani Association on Thursday evening, October 12, This dinner will
celebrate the 355th anniversary of the founding of the Department of Librarianship,
and will be held in conjunction with the New York Library Association Conference
at the Laurels Hotel and Country Club, Monticello, New York.

Dr. Irving Verechoor, new director of the Depertment of Librarianship, and
Professor Robert Burgess, who recently returned from two and one-half years in
Korea, will greet the Alumni. Guests of honor will be Miss Georgiana Maar,
President elect of the New York Library Association, and Mrs. Augusta Baker,
coordinator of Children’s Services, New York Public Library. Both Miss Maar
and Mre. Beker are graduates of the Department of Librarianship at Albany.

Mr. Robert Chatterton, Librarian of the Greenville Central School is the

Treasurer of this Alumni Association.

Same newsletter sent to following: Ravena News-Herald, George E. Bleezarde, Ed.,164
Main St., Ravena, N. Y.
Knickerbocker News, R.Fichenburg, Ed., Albany
Times Union, J. Leary, Ed., Albany.
Troy Record, Alton T. Sliter, Ed., 501 Broadway, Troy)
Schenectady Gazette, John E, Hume, Jr., Ed., |
334 State Street, Schenectady. |
Schenectady Union Star, H.R.Ekins, Ed., 211 Clinton St
Monticello Bulletin-Sentinel, Rubin J. Katz,Publ., |
Monticello, N.Y.
Monticello News, Gerald Gunthrop, Ed.,203 Broadway, |
Monticello, N.Y.
Monticello Republican Watchman,Alvin O.Benton, Ed. |
Monticello, |, |
