ACADEMIC HERALDRY

The caps, gowns, and hoods
worn at college and university func-
tions date back to the Middle Ages.
Monks and students of those days
wore them to keep warm in the
damp and drafty 12th-century cas-
tles and halls of learning. The
gowns for the bachelor's degree,
earned after undergraduate study,
have long, pointed sleeves and are
designed to be worn closed.

The holder of the master’s degree
wears a gown with an oblong sleeve
open at the wrist. The sleeve base
hangs down, and rear part of its
oblong shape is worn square cut. The
gown may be worn open or closed.
An alternate and older masters gown
is also permissible. The gown is
always worn open, has a long sleeve,
which is square and closed at the
end, and has a slit near forearm.

Gowns for the doctoral degree
may also be worn open or closed,
but they carry broad velvet panels
down the front and three velvet
bars on the full, round, open sleeves.
The velvet trimming may be either
in black or the color distinctive to
the field of learning to which the
degree pertains.

Academic gowns for each level
are black, although a few institu-
tions permit doctoral recipients to
wear gowns of the characteristic
institutional color.

Academic protocol allows trustees,
presidents, and marshals of higher
education institutions to wear gowns
which are especially designed and

colored. The President of the Uni-
versity at Albany wears a royal pur-
ple gown bearing four gold velvet
chevrons on the sleeves. The mar-
shals’ gowns at Albany are royal
purple and gold.

Caps may be of serge, broadcloth,
or, for the doctoral outfit only, of
velvet. The tassel is black or the
color appropriate to subject, except
the doctoral cap may have a tassel
of gold or bullion.

It is the hood that gives color
and real meaning to the academic
costume. The bachelor’s hood is
sometimes worn upon completion
of the course, even though the
degree has not yet been actually
conferred. A black shell of varying
size for the three degrees, and of
material to match the gowns, is
silk-lined with the colors of the
institution conferring the degree.
Albany’s institutional colors are
royal purple and gold.

The hoods of the master's degree
recipients are a black shell made of
material to match the gown and use
the institutional colors. The doctoral
hood, which uses the same institu-
tional colors, is larger and of a dif-
ferent style, having a flat panel at
the back. The hood is bordered
with velvet of the proper width to
indicate the degree and of the color
signifying the field of learning to
which the degree pertains.

It is important to note that the
color of the velvet trimming on the
hood indicates the subject to which

the degree pertains. The “Bachelor
of Science in engineering” degree
should have the orange trimming of
engineering, rather than the golden
yellow of science. The Doctor of
Philosophy degree requires dark
blue because the degree designation
does not necessarily identify the
major field of study. If more than
one degree is held, the gown and
hood of the highest degree are
worn. Holders of several doctoral
degrees may make a choice of hood
for any particular occasion. The col-
ors indicative of the various fields
of learning are as follows:

Arts, Letters, Humanities: white
Accountancy, Business, Commerce:
drab

Economics: copper

Education: light blue

Fine Arts, including Architecture:
brown

Journalism: crimson

Library Science: lemon yellow
Music: pink
Oratory (Speech): sliver gray
Philosophy: dark blue
Physical Education: sage green
Public Administration, including
Foreign Service: peacock blue
Science: golden yellow
Social Science: cream
Social Work: citron

Graduating students at Albany
wear tassels on their caps in a color
representing their academic major.
Honors graduates of the baccalaureate
program also wear honor medallions.

Degrees being awarded today are follow ed by degrees aw arded in December and August of 1995 in each category.
Cadidates for degrees are listed as of April 25, 1996. No changes in status could be made after that date. Honors for

> »)
May degree candidates were computed using the cumulative grade point average as of December 24, 1995, and pro-
jected A-E credits at Albany of 56 or more. Official honor status will be recalculated when Spring 1996 grades are

recorded and will appear on the diploma.

*** Summa Cum Laude — signifies a cumulative grade-point average of 3.75 or above
)-
** Magna Cum Laude — signifies a cumulative grade-point average of 3.50-3.74
* Cum Laude — signifies a cumulative grade-point avera

ge of 3.25-3.49
